# Contribution

Hello, thanks for taking time and helping out with the plugin!

#### [Local setup](documentation%2Fcontribution%2Flocal_setup.md)

## Tutorials

You can first start with official tutorials - they are very minimalistic so not that long read.  
[Explanations](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/syntax-highlighting-and-error-highlighting.html)  
[Code examples](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/syntax-highlighter-and-color-settings-page.html)  
You don't have to read it all, but at least check if there's a chapter for a feature you want to work with.

## Development

[Source code](documentation%2Fcontribution%2Fsouce_code.md)  
[Code flow overview](documentation%2Fcontribution%2Fcode_flow.md)

#### Features

If you have any questions, please open a GitHub issue in this repository: https://github.com/dasTholo/godot-support/issues

#### Testing
- [tests.md](documentation/contribution/tests.md)

## Important notes

### Debugging

The IDE when running is constantly checking for ProcessCancellation to prevent freezing, which means that while debugging you have maybe 1 or 2 seconds, before the process is killed.  

You can turn it off under `Tools | Internal Actions | Skip Window Deactivation Events` since 2023.2 or read [official doc](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/docs/intellij/general-threading-rules.html#disabling-processcanceledexception) if changed.

!! IMPORTANT !! Turn it off in the debug editor started from gradle :runRustRover NOT in the one that you are using for development.

### gd.bnf grammar

This is outdated and no longer in use - the same goes for GdParser.java within `src/main/gen/` folder that was generated by it.

The parser is rewritten into pure .kt files under `src/gdscript/parser/` because Godot is a context-aware language which bnf does not support.

On the same note, classes inside `src/main/gen/gdscript/psi/` are obsolete - they are still used as they have been generated from .bnf (it'd be too much work to move and update them), but should there be any change to Psi, .bnf generators cannot be used anymore, thus it's important to edit those files - preferably to also move them inside `src/kotlin/gdscript/psi/` when editing them.

.tscn and .godot parsers are still using their .bnf grammars

## Quirks

- Java code  
Most of the code is already rewritten in Kotlin, but there are still few Java files - which are due to legacy/bug reasons, like some files that were unable to be transferred to Kotlin.


- SDK generation  
SDK stubs are built locally via the Kotlin SDK builder in `buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/sdk/SdkBuilder.kt`. It fetches stable Godot tags >= 4.6 from the Godot repository.


- Makefile  
This is used for copying Godot's icons to have same visuals for completion of Classes, line markers and so on.  
Later may be added into CI to update it with each new Godot release


## Pull Request Checklist

When submitting a PR, please ensure the following:

- The fix or feature implementation is included in the PR.
- Tests are added or updated as described in [tests.md](documentation/contribution/tests.md)

You can also follow the prompts in our GitHub pull request template located at .github/pull_request_template.md.
